docs/details/pca/v1_1.md, before:

# PCA (version 1.1)

## Parameters 

`parameters` should contain:

- `num_hvgs`: a scalar integer containing the number of highly variable genes to use to compute the PCA.
- `num_pcs`: a scalar integer containing the number of PCs to compute.
- `block_method`: a scalar string specifying the method to use when dealing with multiple blocks in the dataset.
  This may be `"none"`, `"regress"` or `"mnn"`.

## Results

`results` should contain:

- `pcs`: a 2-dimensional float dataset containing the PC coordinates in a row-major layout.
  Each row corresponds to a cell (after QC filtering) and each column corresponds to a PC.
  Note that this is deliberately transposed from the Javascript/Wasm representation for easier storage.

  If `block_method = "mnn"`, the PCs will be computed using a weighted method that adjusts for differences in the number of cells across blocks.
  If `block_method = "regress"`, the PCs will be computed on the residuals after regressing out the block-wise effects.
- `var_exp`: a float dataset of length equal to the number of PCs, containing the percentage of variance explained by each PC.

If `block_method = "mnn"`, the `results` group will also contain:

- `corrected`, a float dataset with the same dimensions as `pcs`, containing the MNN-corrected PCs for each cell

Commit message:

Remove all references to the validate() functions, list definitions instead.

docs/details/pca/v1_1.md, after:

# PCA (version 1.1)

## Overview

**Definitions:**

- `num_cells`: number of cells remaining after QC filtering.
  This is typically determined from the [`quality_control`](../quality_control/v1_0.md) step.

## Parameters 

`parameters` should contain:

- `num_hvgs`: a scalar integer containing the number of highly variable genes to use to compute the PCA.
- `num_pcs`: a scalar integer containing the number of PCs to compute.
- `block_method`: a scalar string specifying the method to use when dealing with multiple blocks in the dataset.
  This may be `"none"`, `"regress"` or `"mnn"`.

## Results

`results` should contain:

- `pcs`: a 2-dimensional float dataset containing the PC coordinates in a row-major layout.
  Each row corresponds to a cell (after QC filtering) and each column corresponds to a PC.
  The total number of rows and columns is defined as `num_cells` and `num_pcs`, respectively.

  If `block_method = "mnn"`, the PCs will be computed using a weighted method that adjusts for differences in the number of cells across blocks.
  If `block_method = "regress"`, the PCs will be computed on the residuals after regressing out the block-wise effects.
- `var_exp`: a float dataset of length equal to the number of PCs, containing the percentage of variance explained by each PC.

If `block_method = "mnn"`, the `results` group will also contain:

- `corrected`, a float dataset with the same dimensions as `pcs`, containing the MNN-corrected PCs for each cell
