docs/details/kmeans_cluster/latest.md, before:

# k-means clustering (latest) {#details-kmeans_cluster}

## Overview

We expect an `kmeans_cluster` HDF5 group at the root of the file, containing the k-means clustering parameters and results.
The group itself should contain the `parameters` and `results` subgroups.

## Parameters

`parameters` should contain:

- `k`: a scalar integer specifying the number of clusters to create.

## Results

If k-means clustering is the chosen clustering method in [`choose_clustering`](../choose_clustering/latest.md) (i.e., `in_use = true` in `kmeans_cluster::validate()`), `results` should contain:

- `clusters`: an integer dataset of length equal to the number of cells after filtering.
  This contains the cluster assignment for each cell, which should lie in `[0, k)`.

  The total number of clusters may be less than `k`, e.g., when there are too few cells.
  For `N` clusters, there should be at least one occurrence of each integer in `[0, N)`.

If `in_use = false`, `clusters` may be absent.
Nonetheless, if it is present, it should follow the constraints listed above.

## Changelog

- Version 1.0: added the `kmeans_cluster` group.

Commit message:

Remove all references to the validate() functions, list definitions instead.

docs/details/kmeans_cluster/latest.md, after:

# k-means clustering (latest) {#details-kmeans_cluster}

## Overview

We expect an `kmeans_cluster` HDF5 group at the root of the file, containing the k-means clustering parameters and results.
The group itself should contain the `parameters` and `results` subgroups.

**Definitions:**

- `in_use`: whether k-means is the chosen clustering method in [`choose_clustering`](../choose_clustering/latest.md).
- `num_cells`: number of cells remaining after QC filtering.
  This is usually determined from the [`cell_filtering`](../cell_filtering/latest.md) step.

## Parameters

`parameters` should contain:

- `k`: a scalar integer specifying the number of clusters to create.

## Results

If `in_use = true`, `results` should contain:

- `clusters`: an integer dataset of length equal to `num_cells`.
  This contains the cluster assignment for each cell, which should lie in `[0, k)`.

  The total number of clusters may be less than `k`, e.g., when there are too few cells.
  For `N` clusters, there should be at least one occurrence of each integer in `[0, N)`.

If `in_use = false`, `clusters` may be absent.
Nonetheless, if it is present, it should follow the constraints listed above.

## Changelog

- Version 1.0: added the `kmeans_cluster` group.
