# Overview

We expect an `rna_quality_control` HDF5 group at the root of the file, containing parameters and statistics for quality control on the RNA count matrix.
The group itself contains the `parameters` and `results` subgroups.

**Definitions:**

- `rna_available`: whether RNA data is present in the dataset.
  This is typically determined by examining the `inputs` step.
- `num_cells`: number of cells in the dataset, prior to any filtering.
  This is typically determined from the `inputs` step.
- `num_blocks`: number of blocks in the dataset.
  This is typically determined from the `inputs` step.

# Parameters

`parameters` should contain:

- `use_mito_default`: a scalar integer to be interpreted as a boolean.
  This specifies whether to use the default mitochondrial gene list.
- `mito_prefix`: a scalar string containing the expected prefix for mitochondrial gene symbols.
- `nmads`: a scalar float specifying the number of MADs to use to define the QC thresholds.

# Results

If `rna_available = false`, `results` should be an empty group.

Otherwise, `results` should contain:

- `metrics`, a group containing per-cell QC metrics derived from the RNA count data.
  This contains:
  - `sums`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_cells`, containing the total count for each cell.
  - `detected`:  an integer dataset of length equal to `num_cells`, containing the total number of detected genes for each cell.
  - `proportion`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_cells`, containing the percentage of counts in (mitochondrial) genes.
- `thresholds`, a group containing thresholds on the metrics for each block.
  This contains:
  - `sums`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_blocks`, containing the total count threshold for each block.
  - `detected`:  an integer dataset of length equal to `num_blocks`, containing the threshold on the total number of detected genes for each block.
  - `proportion`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_blocks`, containing the threshold on the percentage of counts in (mitochondrial) genes for each block.
- `discards`: an integer dataset of length equal to `num_cells`.
  Each value is interpreted as a boolean and specifies whether the corresponding cell would be discarded by the RNA-based filter thresholds.

# History

Added in version 3.0, with the following notes:

- This step used to be called `quality_control`, but we added a prefix to better disambiguate it from the other modalities.
- The calculation of the QC metrics and thresholds can no longer be skipped;
  the application of those filters is determined in the later `cell_filtering` step.
- That said, QC results are now optional if RNA data is not available.
