# Overview

Contents are stored inside an `inputs` HDF5 group at the root of the file.
The `cell_labelling` group itself contains the `parameters` and `results` subgroups.

**Definitions:**

- `rna_available`: whether RNA data is available in the dataset. 
  This is typically determined from the `inputs` step.
- `num_clusters`: number of clusters generated in the analysis.
  This is determined by the [`choose_clustering`](../choose_clustering/v1_0.md) step.

# Parameters

`parameters` should contain:

- `human_references`: a string dataset defining the human reference datasets used for labelling.
  Each entry contains the name of a reference dataset, e.g., `"BlueprintEncode"`.
- `mouse_references`: a string dataset defining the mouse reference datasets used for labelling.
  Each entry contains the name of a reference dataset, e.g., `"ImmGen"`.

# Results

If `rna_available = false`, `results` should be empty.

Otherwise, `results` should contain:

- `per_reference`: a group containing the label assignments for each cluster in each reference.
  Each child is named after its corresponding reference as listed in `parameters`, though not all references listed in `parameters` need to be present here.
  Each child is a 1-dimensional string dataset of length equal to `num_clusters`, where each entry contains the assigned label for the corresponding cluster.

For multiple references of the relevant species, `results` will also contain:

- `integrated`: a string dataset of length equal to `num_clusters`.
  This specifies the reference with the top-scoring label for each cluster, after integrating the results of all per-reference classifications.

# History

Updated in version 3.0, with the following changes from the [previous version](v1_0.md):

- Cell labelling results are now optional if RNA data is not available.
