docs/details/inputs/v1_0.md, before:

# Inputs (version 1.0)

## Parameters

`parameters` should contain:

- `format`: a scalar string specifying the file format for a single matrix.
  This is usually either `"MatrixMarket"`, for a MatrixMarket file with possible feature/barcode annotations;
  `"10X"`, for the 10X Genomics HDF5 matrix format;
  or `"H5AD"`, for the H5AD format.
  Other values are allowed but their interpretation is implementation-defined (e.g., for custom resources). 
  For multiple matrices, `format` should instead be a 1-dimensional string dataset of length equal to the number of uploads.
  Each element of the dataset is usually one of `"MatrixMarket"`, `"10X"` or `"H5AD"`; 
  different values can be present for mixed input formats.}
- `files`: a group of groups representing an array of input file information.
  Each inner group is named by their positional index in the array and contains information about a file in an upload.
  Each inner group should contain:
  - `type`: a scalar string specifying the type of the file.
    - If `format = "MatrixMarket"`, there should be exactly one `type = "mtx"` corresponding to the (possibly Gzipped) `*.mtx` file.
      There may be zero or one `type = "genes"`, containing a (possibly Gzipped) TSV file with the Ensembl and gene symbols for each row.
      There may be zero or one `type = "annotations"`, containing a (possibly Gzipped) TSV file with the annotations for each column.
    - If `format = "10X"` or `"H5AD"`, there should be exactly one `type = "h5"`.
    - For other `format`s, any `type` can be used, typically for custom resources.
  - `name`: a scalar string specifying the file name as it was provided to **kana**.

  If `embedded = true`, we additionally expect:
  - `offset`: a scalar integer specifying where the file starts as an offset from the start of the remaining bytes section.
    The offset for the first file should be zero, and entries in `files` should be ordered by increasing `offset`.
  - `size`: a non-negative scalar integer specifying the number of bytes in the file.
    The offset of each file should be equal to the sum of `size` and `offset` for the preceding file.

  If `embedded = false`, we expect:
  - `id`: a scalar string containing some unique identifier for this file.
    The interpretation of `id` is application-specific but usually refers to some cache or database.

## Results

`results` should contain:

- `dimensions`: an integer dataset of length 2,
  containing the number of features and the number of cells in the loaded dataset.
- `permutation`: an integer dataset of length equal to the number of cells,
  describing the permutation to be applied to the per-gene results to recover the original row order.

Commit message:

Remove all references to the validate() functions, list definitions instead.

docs/details/inputs/v1_0.md, after:

# Inputs (version 1.0)

## Overview

**Definitions:**

- `embedded`: whether the input files were embedded in the `*.kana` file.
  If `false`, the input files are assumed to be linked instead.

## Parameters

`parameters` should contain:

- `format`: a scalar string specifying the file format for a single matrix.
  This is usually either `"MatrixMarket"`, for a MatrixMarket file with possible feature/barcode annotations;
  `"10X"`, for the 10X Genomics HDF5 matrix format;
  or `"H5AD"`, for the H5AD format.
  Other values are allowed but their interpretation is implementation-defined (e.g., for custom resources). 
  For multiple matrices, `format` should instead be a 1-dimensional string dataset of length equal to the number of uploads.
  Each element of the dataset is usually one of `"MatrixMarket"`, `"10X"` or `"H5AD"`; 
  different values can be present for mixed input formats.}
- `files`: a group of groups representing an array of input file information.
  Each inner group is named by their positional index in the array and contains information about a file in an upload.
  Each inner group should contain:
  - `type`: a scalar string specifying the type of the file.
    - If `format = "MatrixMarket"`, there should be exactly one `type = "mtx"` corresponding to the (possibly Gzipped) `*.mtx` file.
      There may be zero or one `type = "genes"`, containing a (possibly Gzipped) TSV file with the Ensembl and gene symbols for each row.
      There may be zero or one `type = "annotations"`, containing a (possibly Gzipped) TSV file with the annotations for each column.
    - If `format = "10X"` or `"H5AD"`, there should be exactly one `type = "h5"`.
    - For other `format`s, any `type` can be used, typically for custom resources.
  - `name`: a scalar string specifying the file name as it was provided to **kana**.

  If `embedded = true`, we additionally expect:
  - `offset`: a scalar integer specifying where the file starts as an offset from the start of the remaining bytes section.
    The offset for the first file should be zero, and entries in `files` should be ordered by increasing `offset`.
  - `size`: a non-negative scalar integer specifying the number of bytes in the file.
    The offset of each file should be equal to the sum of `size` and `offset` for the preceding file.

  If `embedded = false`, we expect:
  - `id`: a scalar string containing some unique identifier for this file.
    The interpretation of `id` is application-specific but usually refers to some cache or database.

## Results

`results` should contain:

- `dimensions`: an integer dataset of length 2,
  containing the number of features and the number of cells in the loaded dataset.
- `permutation`: an integer dataset of length equal to the number of cells,
  describing the permutation to be applied to the per-gene results to recover the original row order.
