# Overview

An `inputs` group should be present at the root of the HDF5 file, containing all information relating to the data inputs.
This includes the definition of the input files as well as summary statistics like the number of cells and features.
The group itself contains the `parameters` and `results` subgroups.

In this section, a "matrix" refers to one or more files describing a single (count) matrix.
This should be exactly one file for HDF5-based formats, or multiple files for MatrixMarket formats, e.g., to include feature information - see below for details.
Multiple matrices may be supplied, in which case each matrix is assumed to contain data for one sample.
Alternatively, a single matrix may contain data for one or more samples as partitioned by a sample factor.

The loaded dataset refers to the in-memory representation of the matrix (for single matrix inputs) or the combined matrices (for multiple inputs).
The identities of the rows of the loaded dataset may be a permutation or subset of the rows in the input matrices.
This is especially true for multiple inputs where the loaded dataset only contains the intersection of features across inputs.
For multiple matrices, the loaded dataset is assumed to be a column-wise concatenation of the individual matrices after sorting them by `sample_names`.

**Definitions:**

- `embedded`: whether the input files were embedded in the `*.kana` file.
  If `false`, the input files are assumed to be linked instead.

# Parameters

`parameters` should contain:

- `format`: a scalar string specifying the file format for a single matrix.
  This is usually either `"MatrixMarket"`, for a MatrixMarket file with possible feature/barcode annotations;
  `"10X"`, for the 10X Genomics HDF5 matrix format;
  or `"H5AD"`, for the H5AD format.
  Other values are allowed but their interpretation is implementation-defined (e.g., for custom resources). 
  For multiple matrices, `format` should instead be a 1-dimensional string dataset of length equal to the number of uploads.
  Each element of the dataset is usually one of `"MatrixMarket"`, `"10X"` or `"H5AD"`; 
  different values can be present for mixed input formats.
- `files`: a group of groups representing an array of input file information.
  Each inner group is named by their positional index in the array and contains information about a file in an upload.
  Each inner group should contain:
  - `type`: a scalar string specifying the type of the file.
    For multiple matrices, the constraints below apply to all files corresponding to a single matrix.
    - If `format = "MatrixMarket"`, there should be exactly one `type = "mtx"` corresponding to the (possibly Gzipped) `*.mtx` file.
      There may be zero or one `type = "genes"`, containing a (possibly Gzipped) TSV file with the Ensembl and gene symbols for each row.
      There may be zero or one `type = "annotations"`, containing a (possibly Gzipped) TSV file with the annotations for each column.
    - If `format = "10X"` or `"H5AD"`, there should be exactly one `type = "h5"`.
    - For other `format`s, any `type` can be used, typically for custom resources.
  - `name`: a scalar string specifying the file name as it was provided to **kana**.

  If `embedded = true`, we additionally expect:
  - `offset`: a scalar integer specifying where the file starts as an offset from the start of the remaining bytes section.
    The offset for the first file should be zero, and entries in `files` should be ordered by increasing `offset`.
  - `size`: a non-negative scalar integer specifying the number of bytes in the file.
    The offset of each file should be equal to the sum of `size` and `offset` for the preceding file.

  If `embedded = false`, we expect:
  - `id`: a scalar string containing some unique identifier for this file.
    The interpretation of `id` is application-specific but usually refers to some cache or database.

For multiple matrices, `parameters` should also contain:

- `sample_groups`: an integer dataset of length equal to the number of samples.
  Each entry specifies the number of files in `files` that belong to a sample.
  (All files from the same sample are assumed to be contiguous in the array represented by `files`;
  so a `sample_groups` of `[3, 2, 1]` would mean that the first three files belong to the first sample, 
  the next 2 files belong to the second sample, and the last file belongs to the third sample.)
- `sample_names`: a string dataset of length equal to the number of samples.
  Each value contains the name for the sample defined by the corresponding entry of `sample_groups`.

For single matrix inputs, `parameters` may also contain:

- `sample_factor`: a string scalar specifying the field in the per-cell annotation that contains the sample blocking factor. 
  If present, it is assumed that the matrix contains data for multiple samples.

# Results

`results` should contain:

- `dimensions`: an integer dataset of length 2,
  containing the number of features and the number of cells in the loaded dataset.
  When dealing with multiple matrix inputs, the first entry is instead defined as the size of the intersection of features across all matrices.

`results` may also contain:

- `num_samples`: an integer scalar dataset specifying the number of samples.
  If absent, this is assumed to be 1.
  For multiple matrices, the value listed here should be consistent with the number of samples specified in the paramaters.

If there is only a single matrix, `results` should also contain:

- `permutation`: an integer dataset of length equal to the number of cells,
  describing the permutation to be applied to the per-gene results to recover the original row order.

If there are multiple matrices, `results` should instead contain:

- `indices`: an integer dataset containing the row index of each feature in the intersection.
  For each entry, the gene is defined as the indexed row in the first sample _without permutation_.
  The `indices` are parallel to the per-gene results.

# Changes from previous version

- Added support for multiple matrices and samples. 
