docs/details/inputs/v1_2.md, before:

# Inputs (version 1.2)

## Parameters

See the "Parameters" section for [version 1.1](v1_1.md).

## Results

`results` should contain:

- `dimensions`: an integer dataset of length 2,
  containing the number of features and the number of cells in the loaded dataset.
  When dealing with multiple matrix inputs, the first entry is instead defined as the size of the intersection of features across all matrices.
- `identities`: a 1-dimensional integer dataset of length equal to the first entry of `dimensions`, containing the identity of each row in the loaded dataset.
  If a single input was provided, `identities` identifies each row in terms of its index in the "original" input matrix (i.e., if it were loaded without any modification).
  If multiple inputs were provided, `identities` contains the intersection of features across inputs, and each value refers to the row index in the original matrix of the _first_ input.
  Row identities are parallel to the per-gene results in subsequent analysis steps.

`results` may also contain:

- `num_samples`: an integer scalar dataset specifying the number of samples.
  If absent, this is assumed to be 1.
  For multiple matrices, the value listed here should be consistent with the number of samples specified in the paramaters.

Commit message:

Remove all references to the validate() functions, list definitions instead.

docs/details/inputs/v1_2.md, after:

# Inputs (version 1.2)

## Overview

**Definitions:**

- `embedded`: whether the input files were embedded in the `*.kana` file.
  If `false`, the input files are assumed to be linked instead.

## Parameters

See the "Parameters" section for [version 1.1](v1_1.md).

## Results

`results` should contain:

- `dimensions`: an integer dataset of length 2,
  containing the number of features and the number of cells in the loaded dataset.
  When dealing with multiple matrix inputs, the first entry is instead defined as the size of the intersection of features across all matrices.
- `identities`: a 1-dimensional integer dataset of length equal to the first entry of `dimensions`, containing the identity of each row in the loaded dataset.
  If a single input was provided, `identities` identifies each row in terms of its index in the "original" input matrix (i.e., if it were loaded without any modification).
  If multiple inputs were provided, `identities` contains the intersection of features across inputs, and each value refers to the row index in the original matrix of the _first_ input.
  Row identities are parallel to the per-gene results in subsequent analysis steps.

`results` may also contain:

- `num_samples`: an integer scalar dataset specifying the number of samples.
  If absent, this is assumed to be 1.
  For multiple matrices, the value listed here should be consistent with the number of samples specified in the paramaters.
