docs/details/inputs/v2_0.md, before:

# Overview

**Definitions:**

- `embedded`: whether the input files were embedded in the `*.kana` file.
  If `false`, the input files are assumed to be linked instead.

# Parameters

`parameters` should contain:

- `format`: a scalar string specifying the file format for a single matrix.
  This is usually either `"MatrixMarket"`, for a MatrixMarket file with possible feature/barcode annotations;
  `"10X"`, for the 10X Genomics HDF5 matrix format;
  or `"H5AD"`, for the H5AD format.
  Other values are allowed but their interpretation is implementation-defined (e.g., for custom resources). 
  For multiple matrices, `format` should instead be a 1-dimensional string dataset of length equal to the number of uploads.
  Each element of the dataset is usually one of `"MatrixMarket"`, `"10X"` or `"H5AD"`; 
  different values can be present for mixed input formats.}
- `files`: a group of groups representing an array of input file information.
  Each inner group is named by their positional index in the array and contains information about a file in an upload.
  Each inner group should contain:
  - `type`: a scalar string specifying the type of the file.
    - If `format = "MatrixMarket"`, there should be exactly one `type = "mtx"` corresponding to the (possibly Gzipped) `*.mtx` file.
      There may be zero or one `type = "genes"`, containing a (possibly Gzipped) TSV file with the Ensembl and gene symbols for each row.
      There may be zero or one `type = "annotations"`, containing a (possibly Gzipped) TSV file with the annotations for each column.
    - If `format = "10X"` or `"H5AD"`, there should be exactly one `type = "h5"`.
    - For other `format`s, any `type` can be used, typically for custom resources.
  - `name`: a scalar string specifying the file name as it was provided to **kana**.

  If `embedded = true`, we additionally expect:
  - `offset`: a scalar integer specifying where the file starts as an offset from the start of the remaining bytes section.
    The offset for the first file should be zero, and entries in `files` should be ordered by increasing `offset`.
  - `size`: a non-negative scalar integer specifying the number of bytes in the file.
    The offset of each file should be equal to the sum of `size` and `offset` for the preceding file.

  If `embedded = false`, we expect:
  - `id`: a scalar string containing some unique identifier for this file.
    The interpretation of `id` is application-specific but usually refers to some cache or database.

# Results

`results` should contain:

- `num_cells`: an integer scalar specifying the number of cells in the loaded dataset.
- `num_features`: a group containing integer scalar datasets, each named after a modality (typically `"RNA"` and/or `"ADT"`).
  Each dataset contains the number of features for its named modality.
  When dealing with multiple matrix inputs, the number of features is defined as the intersection across all matrices.
- `identities`: a group containin 1-dimensional integer datasets, each named after a modality in `num_features`.
  Each dataset is of length equal to the number of features listed in its corresponding `num_features` dataset.
  Each dataset contains the identities of the rows in the loaded dataset corresponding to its named modality.
  If a single input was provided, `identities` identifies each row in terms of its index in the "original" input matrix (i.e., if it were loaded without any modification).
  If multiple inputs were provided, `identities` contains the intersection of features across inputs, and each value refers to the row index in the original matrix of the _first_ input.
  Row identities are parallel to the per-feature results in subsequent analysis steps.

# History

Updated in version 2.0, with the following changes from the [previous version](v1_2.md):

- Store the number of features for multiple modalities.

Commit message:

Updated inputs specification to version 3. (#8)
This does a lot of simplification of the parameters to make the single/multiple
dataset scenarios more consistent with each other (i.e. no need to check
between format strings vs vectors). 

We also add an extra feature_names group that stores gene names, for easier
cross-referencing of gene IDs during manual inspection of the results.

Finally, a bunch of fields got renamed for clarity, and legacy code is blown away.

docs/details/inputs/v2_0.md, after:

# Overview

**Definitions:**

- `embedded`: whether the input files were embedded in the `*.kana` file.
  If `false`, the input files are assumed to be linked instead.

# Parameters

`parameters` should contain:

- `format`: a scalar string specifying the file format for a single matrix.
  This is usually either `"MatrixMarket"`, for a MatrixMarket file with possible feature/barcode annotations;
  `"10X"`, for the 10X Genomics HDF5 matrix format;
  or `"H5AD"`, for the H5AD format.
  Other values are allowed but their interpretation is implementation-defined (e.g., for custom resources). 
  For multiple matrices, `format` should instead be a 1-dimensional string dataset of length equal to the number of uploads.
  Each element of the dataset is usually one of `"MatrixMarket"`, `"10X"` or `"H5AD"`; 
  different values can be present for mixed input formats.}
- `files`: a group of groups representing an array of input file information.
  Each inner group is named by their positional index in the array and contains information about a file in an upload.
  Each inner group should contain:
  - `type`: a scalar string specifying the type of the file.
    - If `format = "MatrixMarket"`, there should be exactly one `type = "mtx"` corresponding to the (possibly Gzipped) `*.mtx` file.
      There may be zero or one `type = "genes"`, containing a (possibly Gzipped) TSV file with the Ensembl and gene symbols for each row.
      There may be zero or one `type = "annotations"`, containing a (possibly Gzipped) TSV file with the annotations for each column.
    - If `format = "10X"` or `"H5AD"`, there should be exactly one `type = "h5"`.
    - For other `format`s, any `type` can be used, typically for custom resources.
  - `name`: a scalar string specifying the file name as it was provided to **kana**.

  If `embedded = true`, we additionally expect:
  - `offset`: a scalar integer specifying where the file starts as an offset from the start of the remaining bytes section.
    The offset for the first file should be zero, and entries in `files` should be ordered by increasing `offset`.
  - `size`: a non-negative scalar integer specifying the number of bytes in the file.
    The offset of each file should be equal to the sum of `size` and `offset` for the preceding file.

  If `embedded = false`, we expect:
  - `id`: a scalar string containing some unique identifier for this file.
    The interpretation of `id` is application-specific but usually refers to some cache or database.

# Results

`results` should contain:

- `num_cells`: an integer scalar specifying the number of cells in the loaded dataset.
- `num_features`: a group containing integer scalar datasets, each named after a modality (typically `"RNA"` and/or `"ADT"`).
  Each dataset contains the number of features for its named modality.
  When dealing with multiple matrix inputs, the number of features is defined as the intersection across all matrices.
- `identities`: a group containin 1-dimensional integer datasets, each named after a modality in `num_features`.
  Each dataset is of length equal to the number of features listed in its corresponding `num_features` dataset.
  Each dataset contains the identities of the rows in the loaded dataset corresponding to its named modality.
  If a single input was provided, `identities` identifies each row in terms of its index in the "original" input matrix (i.e., if it were loaded without any modification).
  If multiple inputs were provided, `identities` contains the intersection of features across inputs, and each value refers to the row index in the original matrix of the _first_ input.
  Row identities are parallel to the per-feature results in subsequent analysis steps.

`results` may also contain:

- `num_samples`: an integer scalar dataset specifying the number of samples.
  If absent, this is assumed to be 1.
  For multiple matrices, the value listed here should be consistent with the number of samples specified in the paramaters.


# History

Updated in version 2.0, with the following changes from the [previous version](v1_2.md):

- Store the number of features for multiple modalities.
