# Overview

We expect a `quality_control` HDF5 group at the root of the file, containing parameters and statistics for quality control on the RNA count matrix.
The group itself contains the `parameters` and `results` subgroups.

**Definitions:**

- `num_cells`: number of cells in the dataset, prior to any filtering.
  This is typically determined from the `inputs` step.
- `num_samples`: number of samples in the dataset.
  This is typically determined from the `inputs` step.

# Parameters

`parameters` should contain:

- `use_mito_default`: a scalar integer to be interpreted as a boolean.
  This specifies whether to use the default mitochondrial gene list.
- `mito_prefix`: a scalar string containing the expected prefix for mitochondrial gene symbols.
- `nmads`: a scalar float specifying the number of MADs to use to define the QC thresholds.
- `skip`: a scalar integer indicating whether quality control should be skipped.

# Results

`results` should contain:

- `metrics`, a group containing per-cell QC metrics derived from the RNA count data.
  This contains:
  - `sums`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_cells`, containing the total count for each cell.
  - `detected`:  an integer dataset of length equal to `num_cells`, containing the total number of detected genes for each cell.
  - `proportion`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_cells`, containing the percentage of counts in (mitochondrial) genes.
- `thresholds`, a group containing thresholds on the metrics for each sample.
  This contains:
  - `sums`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_samples`, containing the total count threshold for each sample.
  - `detected`:  an integer dataset of length equal to `num_samples`, containing the threshold on the total number of detected genes for each sample.
  - `proportion`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_samples`, containing the threshold on the percentage of counts in (mitochondrial) genes for each sample.
- `discards`: an integer dataset of length equal to `num_cells`.
  Each value is interpreted as a boolean and specifies whether the corresponding cell would be discarded by the RNA-based filter thresholds.

If `skip = true`, `results` may be an empty group.
However, if any of `metrics`, `thresholds` or `discards` is present, they should follow the requirements listed above.

# History

Updated in version 2.1, with the following changes from the [previous version](v1_0.md):

- Support skipping of the QC step.
