docs/details/custom_selections/v1_0.md, before:

# Custom selections (version 1.0)

## Parameters

`parameters` should contain:

- `selections`: a group defining the custom selections.
  Each child is named after a user-created selection.
  Each child is an integer dataset of arbitrary length containing the indices of the selected cells.
  Note that indices refer to the dataset after QC filtering and should be less than the number of cells (i.e., `num_cells` in `custom_selections::validate()`).

## Results

`results` should contain:

- `markers`: a group containing the marker results for each selection after a comparison to a group containing all other cells.
  Each child is named after its selection and is a group containing:
  - `means`: a float dataset of length equal to the number of genes, containing the mean expression of each gene in the selection.
  - `detected`: a float dataset of length equal to the number of genes, containing the proportion of cells with detected expression of each gene in the selection.
  - `lfc`: a float dataset of length equal to the number of genes, containing the log-fold change in the selection compared to all other cells.
  - `delta_detected`: same as `lfc`, but for the delta-detected (i.e., difference in the percentage of detected expression).
  - `cohen`: same as `lfc`, but for Cohen's d.
  - `auc`: same as `lfc`, but for the AUCs.

Commit message:

Remove all references to the validate() functions, list definitions instead.

docs/details/custom_selections/v1_0.md, after:

# Custom selections (version 1.0)

**Definitions:**

- `num_cells`: number of cells remaining after QC filtering.
  This is typically determined from the [`quality_control`](../quality_control/v1_0.md) step.
- `num_genes`: number of genes in the dataset.
  This is typically determined from the [`inputs`](../inputs/v1_0.md) step.

## Parameters

`parameters` should contain:

- `selections`: a group defining the custom selections.
  Each child is named after a user-created selection.
  Each child is an integer dataset of arbitrary length containing the indices of the selected cells.
  Note that indices refer to the dataset after QC filtering and should be less than `num_cells`.

## Results

`results` should contain:

- `markers`: a group containing the marker results for each selection after a comparison to a group containing all other cells.
  Each child is named after its selection and is a group containing:
  - `means`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_genes`, containing the mean expression of each gene in the selection.
  - `detected`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_genes`, containing the proportion of cells with detected expression of each gene in the selection.
  - `lfc`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_genes`, containing the log-fold change in the selection compared to all other cells.
  - `delta_detected`: same as `lfc`, but for the delta-detected (i.e., difference in the percentage of detected expression).
  - `cohen`: same as `lfc`, but for Cohen's d.
  - `auc`: same as `lfc`, but for the AUCs.
