# Overview

We expect an `adt_pca` group at the root of the file, containing information about the principal components analysis of the ADT count matrix.
The group itself contains the `parameters` and `results` subgroups.

No ADT data was available prior to version 2.0 of the format, so the `adt_pca` group may be absent in pre-v2.0 files.

**Definitions:**

- `adt_available`: whether ADTs are present in the dataset.
  This is typically determined by examining the `inputs` step.
- `num_cells`: number of cells remaining after QC filtering.
  This is typically determined from the `cell filtering` step.

# Parameters

`parameters` should contain:

- `num_pcs`: a scalar integer containing the maximum number of PCs to compute.
- `block_method`: a scalar string specifying the method to use when blocking on sample identity.
  This may be `"none"`, `"regress"` or `"weight"`.

# Results

If `adt_available = false`, `results` should be empty.

If `adt_available = true`, `results` should contain:

- `pcs`: a 2-dimensional float dataset containing the PC coordinates in a row-major layout.
  Each row corresponds to a cell (after QC filtering), with `num_cells` rows in total.
  Each column corresponds to a PC, with no more than (but possibly less than) `num_pcs` columns in total.
  PCs may be computed with block-specific weights or regression, depending on `block_method`.
- `var_exp`: a float dataset of length equal to the number of PCs, containing the percentage of variance explained by each PC.

# History

Added in version 2.0.
