# Overview

We expect a `cell_filtering` HDF5 group at the root of the file, containing information about the filtering of low-quality cells.
The itself contains the `parameters` and `results` subgroups.

**Definitions:**

- `rna_available`: whether RNA data is available.
  This is typically determined from the `inputs` step.
- `adt_available`: whether ADT data is available.
  This is typically determined from the `inputs` step.
- `crispr_available`: whether CRISPR data is available.
  This is typically determined from the `inputs` step.
- `num_cells`: number of cells in the unfiltered dataset.
  This is typically determined from the `inputs` step.

# Parameters

`parameters` should contain:

- `use_rna`: a scalar integer to be interpreted as a boolean, indicating whether the RNA data should be used for quality control.
- `use_adt`: a scalar integer to be interpreted as a boolean, indicating whether the ADT data should be used for quality control.
- `use_crispr`: a scalar integer to be interpreted as a boolean, indicating whether the CRISPR data should be used for quality control.

# Results

In this section, the effective number of modalities is defined as the number of modalities (i.e., `rna`, `adt` or `crispr`) 
that are both available (i.e., `*_available` is true) and in use for quality control (i.e., `use_*` is true).

If the effective number of modalities is greater than 1, `results` should contain:

- `discards`: an integer dataset of length equal to `num_cells`.
  Each value is interpreted as a boolean and specifies whether the corresponding cell would be discarded by the filter thresholds.
  This is typically some function of the per-modality `discards` from the modality-specific `*_quality_control` steps.

If the effective number of modalities is 1, `discards` may be absent.
In this case, the discard dataset is implicitly defined as the `discards` from the single modality that was used for QC.

If the effective number of modalities is 0, `discards` may be absent.
In this case, the discard dataset is implicitly defined as an all-zero vector of length `num_cells`, i.e., no removal of any cells.

# History

Updated in version 3.0, with the following changes from the [previous version](v2_0.md):

- This step is now responsible for deciding which modalities to use for filtering.
  Upstream `*_quality_control` steps will always compute metrics, allowing them to be reliably used for diagnostic purposes.
