# Overview

We expect a `feature_selection` HDF5 group at the root of the file, containing statistics for highly variable gene detection from the RNA data.
The group itself contains the `parameters` and `results` subgroups.
In multi-modal contexts, the results here are only relevant for the RNA modality.

**Definitions:**

- `rna_available`: whether RNA data is available in the dataset. 
  This is typically determined from the `inputs` step.
- `num_genes`: number of genes in the RNA expression matrix.
  This is typically determined from the `inputs` step.

# Parameters

`parameters` should contain:

- `span`: a scalar float specifying the span to use for the LOWESS smoother.
  This should lie between 0 and 1.

# Results

If `rna_available = false`, `results` should be empty.

Otherwise, `results` should contain:

- `means`: a 1-dimensional float dataset of length equal to `num_genes`,
  containing the mean log-expression of each gene.
- `vars`: a 1-dimensional float dataset of length equal to `num_genes`,
  containing the variance in log-expression of each gene.
- `fitted`: a 1-dimensional float dataset of length equal to `num_genes`,
  containing the fitted value of the trend for each gene.
- `resids`: a 1-dimensional float dataset of length equal to `num_genes`,
  containing the residuals from the trend for each gene.

# History

Updated in version 3.0, with the following changes from the [previous version](v1_0.md):

- Feature selection results are now optional if RNA data is not available.
