# Overview

We expect a `combine_embeddings` HDF5 group at the root of the file, describing how embeddings are combined across multiple modalities.
The group itself contains the `parameters` and `results` subgroups.

**Definitions:**

- `rna_available`: whether RNA data is available.
  This is typically determined from the `inputs` step.
- `rna_num_pcs`: number of PCs computed from the RNA data, from the `rna_pca` step.
  This is typically determined from the `inputs` step.
- `adt_available`: whether ADT data is available.
  This is typically determined from the `inputs` step.
- `adt_num_pcs`: number of PCs computed from the ADT data, from the `adt_pca` step.
  This is typically determined from the `inputs` step.
- `crispr_available`: whether CRISPR data is available.
  This is typically determined from the `inputs` step.
- `crispr_num_pcs`: number of PCs computed from the CRISPR data, from the `crispr_pca` step.
  This is typically determined from the `inputs` step.
- `num_cells`: number of cells remaining after QC filtering.
  This is typically determined from the `cell_filtering` step.

# Parameters

`parameters` should contain:

- `approximate`: an integer scalar to be interpreted as a boolean,
  indicating whether an approximate neighbor search was used to compute the per-embedding scaling factors.
- `rna_weight`: a scalar float specifying the weight to be applied to the RNA embeddings.
  This should be non-negative.
- `adt_weight`: a scalar float specifying the weight to be applied to the ADT embeddings.
  This should be non-negative.
- `crispr_weight`: a scalar float specifying the weight to be applied to the CRISPR embeddings.
  This should be non-negative.

# Results

In this section, the effective number of modalities is defined as the number of modalities (i.e., `rna`, `adt` or `crispr`) 
that are both available (i.e., `*_available` is true) and have non-zero weight (i.e., `*_weight` is positive).

If the effective number of modalities is greater than 1, `results` should contain:

- `combined`: a 2-dimensional float dataset containing the combined embeddings in a row-major layout.
  Each row corresponds to a cell,  with `num_cells` rows in total.
  Each column corresponds to a dimension, with the total number of columns equal to the sum of `*_num_pcs` across the available modalities with non-zero weight.

If the effective number of modalities is equal to 1, `combined` may be missing.
In this case, it is assumed that only a single embedding exists in the analysis and no combining is necessary.
Downstream steps should instead use the coordinates from the relevant modality's `*_pca` step.

The effective number of modalities should not be zero.

# History

Updated in version 3.0, with the following changes from the [previous version](v2_0.md):

- Weights for each modality are now explicit parameters.
