docs/details/snn_graph_cluster/latest.md, before:

# SNN graph clustering (latest) {#details-snn_graph_cluster}

## Overview

We expect a `snn_graph_cluster` HDF5 group at the root of the file, containing details on the SNN graph-based clustering.
The group itself should contain the `parameters` and `results` subgroups.

## Parameters

`parameters` will contain:

- `k`: a scalar integer specifying the number of nearest neighbors to find.
- `scheme`: a scalar string specifying the edge weighting scheme to use.
  This may be `"rank"`, `"number"` or `"jaccard"`.
- `resolution`: a scalar float specifying the resolution of the multi-level community detection.

## Results

If `in_use = true`, `results` should contain:

- `clusters`: an integer dataset of length equal to the number of cells (after QC filtering), 
  containing the SNN graph cluster assignment for each cell.
  For `N` clusters, there should be at least one occurrence of each integer in `[0, N)`.

If `in_use = false`, `clusters` may be absent.
If it is present, it should follow the constraints listed above.

## Changelog

- Version 1.0: added the `snn_graph_cluster` group.

Commit message:

Remove all references to the validate() functions, list definitions instead.

docs/details/snn_graph_cluster/latest.md, after:

# SNN graph clustering (latest) {#details-snn_graph_cluster}

## Overview

We expect a `snn_graph_cluster` HDF5 group at the root of the file, containing details on the SNN graph-based clustering.
The group itself should contain the `parameters` and `results` subgroups.

**Definitions:**

- `in_use`: whether SNN graph clustering is the chosen method in [`choose_clustering`](../choose_clustering/latest.md).
- `num_cells`: number of cells remaining after QC filtering.
  This is usually determined from the [`cell_filtering`](../cell_filtering/latest.md) step.

## Parameters

`parameters` will contain:

- `k`: a scalar integer specifying the number of nearest neighbors to find.
- `scheme`: a scalar string specifying the edge weighting scheme to use.
  This may be `"rank"`, `"number"` or `"jaccard"`.
- `resolution`: a scalar float specifying the resolution of the multi-level community detection.

## Results

If `in_use = true`, `results` should contain:

- `clusters`: an integer dataset of length equal to `num_cells`, containing the SNN graph cluster assignment for each cell.
  For `N` clusters, there should be at least one occurrence of each integer in `[0, N)`.

If `in_use = false`, `clusters` may be absent.
If it is present, it should follow the constraints listed above.

## Changelog

- Version 1.0: added the `snn_graph_cluster` group.
