# Overview

We expect a `snn_graph_cluster` HDF5 group at the root of the file, containing details on the SNN graph-based clustering.
The group itself should contain the `parameters` and `results` subgroups.

**Definitions:**

- `in_use`: whether SNN graph clustering is the chosen method in [`choose_clustering`](../choose_clustering/v1_0.md).
- `num_cells`: number of cells remaining after QC filtering.

# Parameters

`parameters` will contain:

- `k`: a scalar integer specifying the number of nearest neighbors to find.
- `scheme`: a scalar string specifying the edge weighting scheme to use.
  This may be `"rank"`, `"number"` or `"jaccard"`.
- `algorithm`: a scalar string specifying the community detection method to use.
  This may be `"multilevel"`, `"walktrap"` or `"leiden"`.
- `multilevel_resolution`: a scalar float specifying the resolution of the multi-level community detection.
  This should be non-negative.
- `leiden_resolution`: a scalar float specifying the resolution of the leiden algorithm.
  This should be non-negative.
- `walktrap_steps`: a scalar integer specifying the number of steps to use in the Walktrap algorithm.
  This should be non-negative.

# Results

If `in_use = true`, `results` should contain:

- `clusters`: an integer dataset of length equal to `num_cells`, containing the SNN graph cluster assignment for each cell.
  For `N` clusters, there should be at least one occurrence of each integer in `[0, N)`.

If `in_use = false`, `clusters` may be absent.
If it is present, it should follow the constraints listed above.

# History

Updated in version 3.0, with the following changes from the [previous version](v1_0.md):

- Added choice of community detection algorithm.
- Added algorithm-specific parameters.
- Renamed `resolution` to `multilevel_resolution`.

