docs/details/adt_quality_control/v2_0.md, before:

# ADT quality control (version 2.0)

## Parameters

`parameters` should contain:

- `igg_prefix`: a scalar string containing the expected prefix for IgG features.
- `nmads`: a scalar float specifying the number of MADs to use to define the QC thresholds.
- `min_detected_drop`: a scalar float specifying the minimum relative drop in the number of detected features before a cell is considered to be low-quality.

## Results

If ADTs are not available (i.e., `adt_in_use = false` in `adt_quality_control::validate()`), `results` should be empty.

If `adt_in_use = true`, `results` should contain:

- `metrics`, a group containing per-cell QC metrics derived from the RNA count data.
  This contains:
  - `sums`: a float dataset of length equal to the number of cells (i.e., `num_cells` in `adt_quality_control::validate()`), containing the total count for each cell.
  - `detected`:  an integer dataset of length equal to the number of cells, containing the total number of detected features for each cell.
  - `igg_total`: a float dataset of length equal to the number of cells, containing the total count in IgG features.
- `thresholds`, a group containing thresholds on the metrics for each sample.
  (The number of samples is defined from `num_samples` in `adt_quality_control::validate()`.)
  This contains:
  - `detected`:  a float dataset of length equal to the number of samples, containing the threshold on the total number of detected features for each sample.
  - `igg_total`: a float dataset of length equal to the number of samples, containing the threshold on the total counts in IgG features for each sample.
- `discards`: an integer dataset of length equal to the number of cells.
  Each value is interpreted as a boolean and specifies whether the corresponding cell would be discarded by the ADT-based filter thresholds.

Commit message:

Remove all references to the validate() functions, list definitions instead.

docs/details/adt_quality_control/v2_0.md, after:

# ADT quality control (version 2.0)

## Overview

**Definitions:**

- `adt_in_use`: whether ADTs are present in the dataset.
  This is typically determined by examining the [`inputs`](../inputs/latest.md). 
- `num_cells`: number of cells in the dataset, prior to any filtering.
  This is typically determined from the [`inputs`](../inputs/latest.md) step.
- `num_samples`: number of samples in the dataset.
  This is typically determined from the [`inputs`](../inputs/latest.md) step.

## Parameters

`parameters` should contain:

- `igg_prefix`: a scalar string containing the expected prefix for IgG features.
- `nmads`: a scalar float specifying the number of MADs to use to define the QC thresholds.
- `min_detected_drop`: a scalar float specifying the minimum relative drop in the number of detected features before a cell is considered to be low-quality.

## Results

If `adt_in_use = false`, `results` should be empty.

If `adt_in_use = true`, `results` should contain:

- `metrics`, a group containing per-cell QC metrics derived from the RNA count data.
  This contains:
  - `sums`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_cells`, containing the total count for each cell.
  - `detected`:  an integer dataset of length equal to `num_cells`, containing the total number of detected features for each cell.
  - `igg_total`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_cells`, containing the total count in IgG features.
- `thresholds`, a group containing thresholds on the metrics for each sample.
  This group contains:
  - `detected`:  a float dataset of length equal to `num_samples`, containing the threshold on the total number of detected features for each sample.
  - `igg_total`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_samples`, containing the threshold on the total counts in IgG features for each sample.
- `discards`: an integer dataset of length equal to `num_cells`.
  Each value is interpreted as a boolean and specifies whether the corresponding cell would be discarded by the ADT-based filter thresholds.
