# Overview

We expect an `adt_quality_control` HDF5 group at the root of the file, containing information about the quality control metrics and filters derived from the ADT counts.
The group itself contains the `parameters` and `results` subgroups.

No ADT data was available prior to version 2.0 of the format, so the `adt_quality_control` group may be absent in such files.

**Definitions:**

- `adt_available`: whether ADTs are present in the dataset.
  This is typically determined by examining the `inputs` step.
- `num_cells`: number of cells in the dataset, prior to any filtering.
  This is typically determined from the `inputs` step.
- `num_blocks`: number of blocks in the dataset.
  This is typically determined from the `inputs` step.

# Parameters

`parameters` should contain:

- `igg_prefix`: a scalar string containing the expected prefix for IgG features.
- `nmads`: a scalar float specifying the number of MADs to use to define the QC thresholds.
- `min_detected_drop`: a scalar float specifying the minimum relative drop in the number of detected features before a cell is considered to be low-quality.

# Results

If `adt_available = false`, `results` should be empty.

If `adt_available = true`, `results` should contain:

- `metrics`, a group containing per-cell QC metrics derived from the RNA count data.
  This contains:
  - `sums`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_cells`, containing the total count for each cell.
  - `detected`:  an integer dataset of length equal to `num_cells`, containing the total number of detected features for each cell.
  - `igg_total`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_cells`, containing the total count in IgG features.
- `thresholds`, a group containing thresholds on the metrics for each block.
  This group contains:
  - `detected`:  a float dataset of length equal to `num_blocks`, containing the threshold on the total number of detected features for each block.
  - `igg_total`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_blocks`, containing the threshold on the total counts in IgG features for each block.
- `discards`: an integer dataset of length equal to `num_cells`.
  Each value is interpreted as a boolean and specifies whether the corresponding cell would be discarded by the ADT-based filter thresholds.

# History

Updated in version 3.0, with the following changes from the [previous version](v2_1.md):

- The calculation of the QC metrics and thresholds can no longer be skipped;
  the application of those filters is determined in the later `cell_filtering` step.
