# Overview

We expect a `crispr_quality_control` HDF5 group at the root of the file, containing parameters and statistics for quality control on the CRISPR guide count matrix.
The group itself contains the `parameters` and `results` subgroups.

**Definitions:**

- `crispr_available`: whether CRISPR data is present in the dataset.
  This is typically determined by examining the `inputs` step.
- `num_cells`: number of cells in the dataset, prior to any filtering.
  This is typically determined from the `inputs` step.
- `num_blocks`: number of blocks in the dataset.
  This is typically determined from the `inputs` step.

# Parameters

`parameters` should contain:

- `nmads`: a scalar float specifying the number of MADs to use to define the QC thresholds.

# Results

If `crispr_available = false`, `results` should be an empty group.

Otherwise, `results` should contain:

- `metrics`, a group containing per-cell QC metrics derived from the CRISPR guide count data.
  This contains:
  - `sums`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_cells`, containing the total count for each cell.
  - `detected`:  an integer dataset of length equal to `num_cells`, containing the total number of detected guide for each cell.
  - `max_proportion`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_cells`, containing the percentage of counts in the most abundant guide.
  - `max_index`: an integer dataset of length equal to `num_cells`, containing the row index of the most abundant guide.
- `thresholds`, a group containing thresholds on the metrics for each block.
  This contains:
  - `max_count`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_blocks`, containing the threshold on the maximum guide count within each block.
- `discards`: an integer dataset of length equal to `num_cells`.
  Each value is interpreted as a boolean and specifies whether the corresponding cell would be discarded by the CRISPR-based filter thresholds.

# History

Added in version 3.0.
