# Marker detection (version 1.0)

## Overview

**Definitions:**

- `num_clusters`: number of clusters in the analysis.
  This is typically determined from [`choose_clustering`](../choose_clustering/latest.md).
- `num_genes`: number of genes in the analysis.
  This is typically determined from the [`inputs`](../inputs/v1_0.md) step.

## Parameters

`parameters` should be empty.

## Results

`results` should contain:

- `clusters`: a group representing an array of length equal to the number of clusters.
  Each child is another group that is named by the cluster index from 0 to `num_clusters - 1`, containing the marker details for that cluster.
  Each child group contains:
  - `means`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_genes`, containing the mean expression of each gene in the current cluster.
  - `detected`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_genes`, containing the proportion of cells with detected expression of each gene in the current cluster.
  - `lfc`: an group containing statistics for the log-fold changes from all pairwise comparisons involving the current cluster.
    This contains:
    - `min`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_genes`, containing the minimum log-fold change across all pairwise comparisons for each gene.
    - `mean`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_genes`, containing the mean log-fold change across all pairwise comparisons for each gene.
    - `min_rank`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_genes`, containing the minimum rank of the log-fold changes across all pairwise comparisons for each gene.
  - `delta_detected`: same as `lfc`, but for the delta-detected (i.e., difference in the percentage of detected expression).
  - `cohen`: same as `lfc`, but for Cohen's d.
  - `auc`: same as `lfc`, but for the AUCs.
