docs/details/marker_detection/v1_0.md, before:

# Marker detection (version 1.0)

## Overview

**Definitions:**

- `num_clusters`: number of clusters in the analysis.
  This is typically determined from [`choose_clustering`](../choose_clustering/latest.md).
- `num_genes`: number of genes in the analysis.
  This is typically determined from the [`inputs`](../inputs/v1_0.md) step.

## Parameters

`parameters` should be empty.

## Results

`results` should contain:

- `clusters`: a group representing an array of length equal to the number of clusters.
  Each child is another group that is named by the cluster index from 0 to `num_clusters - 1`, containing the marker details for that cluster.
  Each child group contains:
  - `means`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_genes`, containing the mean expression of each gene in the current cluster.
  - `detected`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_genes`, containing the proportion of cells with detected expression of each gene in the current cluster.
  - `lfc`: an group containing statistics for the log-fold changes from all pairwise comparisons involving the current cluster.
    This contains:
    - `min`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_genes`, containing the minimum log-fold change across all pairwise comparisons for each gene.
    - `mean`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_genes`, containing the mean log-fold change across all pairwise comparisons for each gene.
    - `min_rank`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_genes`, containing the minimum rank of the log-fold changes across all pairwise comparisons for each gene.
  - `delta_detected`: same as `lfc`, but for the delta-detected (i.e., difference in the percentage of detected expression).
  - `cohen`: same as `lfc`, but for Cohen's d.
  - `auc`: same as `lfc`, but for the AUCs.

Commit message:

Reorganized the validation code, tests and docs into a v2 category.
This makes space for the upcoming v3 functionality. The general policy is to
avoid lots of version-specific if's; instead, we just make a separate copy of
any code/test/doc that has any change across major versions.

Also removed all doxygen docs for the step-specific validator functions. It's
too burdensome to guarantee stability of the individual validators anyway, so
we'll be treating it as private from now on. As a result, I removed the 
doxygen action, given that there's nothing to really document anymore.

docs/details/marker_detection/v1_0.md, after:

# Overview

We expect a `marker_detection` HDF5 group at the root of the file, containing marker statistics for each cluster.
The group itself contains the `parameters` and `results` subgroups.

**Definitions:**

- `num_clusters`: number of clusters in the analysis.
  This is typically determined from [`choose_clustering`](../choose_clustering/v1_0.md).
- `num_genes`: number of genes in the analysis.
  This is typically determined from the [`inputs`](../inputs/v1_0.md) step.

# Parameters

`parameters` should be empty.

# Results

`results` should contain:

- `clusters`: a group representing an array of length equal to the number of clusters.
  Each child is another group that is named by the cluster index from 0 to `num_clusters - 1`, containing the marker details for that cluster.
  Each child group contains:
  - `means`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_genes`, containing the mean expression of each gene in the current cluster.
  - `detected`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_genes`, containing the proportion of cells with detected expression of each gene in the current cluster.
  - `lfc`: an group containing statistics for the log-fold changes from all pairwise comparisons involving the current cluster.
    This contains:
    - `min`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_genes`, containing the minimum log-fold change across all pairwise comparisons for each gene.
    - `mean`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_genes`, containing the mean log-fold change across all pairwise comparisons for each gene.
    - `min_rank`: a float dataset of length equal to `num_genes`, containing the minimum rank of the log-fold changes across all pairwise comparisons for each gene.
  - `delta_detected`: same as `lfc`, but for the delta-detected (i.e., difference in the percentage of detected expression).
  - `cohen`: same as `lfc`, but for Cohen's d.
  - `auc`: same as `lfc`, but for the AUCs.
